## Licenses for SAP Cloud Identity Services 

SAP Cloud Identity Services are made available to our customers in two categories. 

- Identity Authentication Services (IAS) 
- Identity Provisioning Services (IPS)

Both services are accessible by a single tenant/URI with the new release from SAP. Cloud Identity Services is bundled along with the BTP (Business Technology Platform) contract, and you will have the option to activate two tenants, Test, and Production **free of cost** to connect to your SAP services. The Test tenant can be used for your Sandbox, Dev, and Testing systems whereas your Production tenant can be used for Production landscape. 

### Identity Authentication Services (IAS)  

Usage of SAP Identity Authentication is commercially included in most of the SAP Business Technology Platform under General Terms and Conditions and can be used for all applications running on SAP BTP. 

In case the tenant provided (test and production) is not sufficient, you may opt for more tenants. If you have a consumption-based license, either CPEA or Pay-as-you-Go, you can create more tenants in a self-service manner by selecting the plan ‘additional-tenant.’ For subscription licenses, you may contact SAP via a service ticket to get them provisioned. For details on this service request reference [SAP KBA 2751968](https://me.sap.com/notes/0002751968). 

In case you want to test certain features of IAS services, you may also opt for a trial IAS system with your BTP Trial account. For details on limitations in the trial offering and how to set the instance up please see the SAP community blog ‘[SAP Cloud Identity Services offered as Trial Version](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/04/13/sap-cloud-identity-services-offered-as-trial-version/#:~:text=SAP%20offers%20different%20Trial%20and,certain%20limits%20and%20time%20constraints.)’.  

Our mission gives you the details on licenses for IAS services, we always recommend checking our help guides which are updated in case of changes to the terms, you can find the official help guide [IAS - Tenant Model and Licensing](https://help.sap.com/docs/IDENTITY_AUTHENTICATION/6d6d63354d1242d185ab4830fc04feb1/93160ebd2dcb40e98aadcbb9a970f2b9.html#loio93160ebd2dcb40e98aadcbb9a970f2b9__licensing_section) or you may refer to our [SAP Store – SAP Cloud Identity Services](https://www.sapstore.com/solutions/80226/SAP-Cloud-Identity-Services?countryCode=IN) for pricing information.  

### Identity Provisioning Services (IPS) 

Identity Provisioning Services are bundled solutions along with your SAP Cloud Identity Services and are always free of charge ([and both accessible in the same tenant](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/03/31/identity-provisioning-joined-the-sap-cloud-identity-services-administration-console/)). When you sign up for a BTP Enterprise Account, you are entitled to receive Identity Authentication and Identity Provisioning tenants without additional costs on the purchase of the corresponding SAP cloud solution's license. These Identity Authentication and Identity Provisioning tenants come preconfigured with the SAP cloud solution. 

You obtain an Identity Provisioning bundle tenant with a set of provisioning systems (source, target, and proxy) for which you have a license. Further usage of Identity Provisioning connectors and their availability depends on the infrastructure/environment your bundle tenant is running on.  

For more information on IPS Services, you can refer to the link [here](https://help.sap.com/docs/IDENTITY_PROVISIONING/f48e822d6d484fa5ade7dda78b64d9f5/65fa74998ef14f059806f0c5a48e5285.html?q=license). Administrators now have the option to configure and work with SAP IPS from within the SAP Cloud Identity Services Administration console! A prerequisite for this functionality is SAP IPS must be running on the SAP Cloud Identity infrastructure. If you are still running in the Neo environment and interested in migrating, please see this [blog post](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/03/31/identity-provisioning-joined-the-sap-cloud-identity-services-administration-console/).  

### Tenant Model: 

**SAP Cloud Identity**, - IAS, and IPS provide **one test and one productive - tenant (models)** per customer, regardless of the number of contracts signed in which Identity Authentication is included or bundled.  

The IAS and IPS Admins are fully in control of the configuration in the administration console. This access is based on roles that are assigned to admin users in the Users & Authorizations screen of the Identity Authentication administration console. 

For service, data center/pricing information, you can refer to the discovery center: 

[Identity Authentication Services](https://discovery-center.cloud.sap/serviceCatalog/identity-authentication?region=all)

[Identity Provisioning Services](https://discovery-center.cloud.sap/serviceCatalog/identity-provisioning?service_plan=sap-cloud-to-sap-cloud&region=all&commercialModel=subscription&tab=feature)
